MindTerm v1.2 Features:
-----------------------

o Full xterm/vt102 terminal emulation including colors, line-draw graphics,
  mouse-support, and function keys. The following terminal-types are supported:
  xterm, linux, aixterm, scoansi, att6368, sun, vt220, vt100, ansi, vt52,
  xterm-color, linux-lat, at386, vt102.

o Authentication with: password, rsa, rsa+rhosts, tis, rhosts, or
  sdi-token (server needs patch from ftp://ftp.parc.xerox.com/pub/jean/sshsdi/).
  Authentication can either be done using one single method, or it can be set to
  try a customized list of methods in a given order

o Supports the following blockciphers: Blowfish, DES, 3DES, IDEA, RC4 (or no
  encryption)

o Supports connection through proxytypes: HTTP, SOCKSv4, and SOCKSv5

o Full support for ssh-tunneling including X11 forward.

o Built in SCP client (with GUI) for simple file-transfer. The file-transfer
  continues independently from the logged in shell where it was started (can
  also be used stand-alone in command-line mode without GUI for use in scripts
  et.c.)

o Can proxy ftp-connections fully, i.e. if an ftp-server is unreachable from
  outside a firewall and the only means of entering the firewall is through SSH,
  then MindTerm let's you access the ftp-server through SSH as easy as if it
  would be world-accessible.

o Tunnels can listen on explicit local addresses, e.g. on a multi-homed
  host or if one wants to distinguish between 127.0.0.1 and the real host-
  address.

o Handles arbitrary simultaneous sessions in different windows to different
  ssh-servers. Also lets user "clone" a terminal-window, automatically logging
  in if allready logged in from original window.

o Can be set to keep ssh-connection alive would it be subject to timeout (either
  by a firewall or through the use of idle-timeout in the ssh-server)

o Can automatically store settings on a per-host basis, user can also customize
  several sessions for a single host or make short-names for hosts.

o Can save passwords along with settings in encrypted format with same strength
  as RSA private key protection (including possibility to use "empty" password).
  Using same password on all settings files gives very convenient way of working
  with multiple hosts.

o Can share RSA-keys and 'known_hosts' file with the standard unix ssh-client.

o Can capture console output to file and send file to console.

o Lists all currently open connections through the tunnels, for example, giving
  the user the opportunity to close a tunnel for a program that have hung.

o Can be used without a GUI from the command-line (much like the standard unix
  ssh-client), also able to run just a single command on the ssh-server and exit
  (optionally allocating a PTY)

o Can work either as a "normal" ssh-client, i.e. as a stand-alone java
  application, OR as an applet from within a browser (see below).

o Cryptographically signed binaries works with Netscape and MSIE browsers giving
  a full ssh-client with tunneling et.c. Unsigned applet can only connect back
  to same address as web-server and cannot do tunneling giving a simple telnet-
  replacement.

o Signed applet can contain known_hosts file to prevent man-in-the-middle
  attacks without the need to store host's key on local disk.

o Same binary runs on multiple platforms, e.g. x86/Linux, Sparc/Solaris, x86/
  Windows95/98/NT, ?/JavaStation, Arm/Epoc32. Additionally MindTerm works with
  Netscape, HotJava, Opera, and MS-IE browsers on most platforms.

o The SSH-package can be used to easily ssh-enable ANY (java) application or
  applet using tcp-based communications (see MindVNC for an example).
